# bnta_code_ethics

### Scenario 1
From a legal perspective, when customers join a bank they sign a contract, and when they create their online banking account they need to agree to Terms & Conditions. With many companies nowadays, these terms and conditions often contain sections that give the company quite a few liberties with the customer’s data (for example, social media companies selling your data to marketers and data brokers). While these documents are legal, they are so long and difficult to read that no sane person would read them and they agree blindly. This is legal, though not ideal.   
If the company just starts sharing their data for a new purpose that was not included in the original T&S, that would be a breach of GDPR. They would have to be asked to reagree to the new Terms and ideally, clearly outline the new changes being implemented so people can knowingly opt-in/opt-out.   
Payday loans in general are some of the more unethical financial services, as often times they specifically target the most-at risk groups and further add to their inability to rise out of poverty/financial difficulties. They are also the [most likely to default on these loans](https://www.bankrate.com/loans/personal-loans/payday-loan-statistics/) and therefore fall further into debt. 


### Scenario 2

Legally, there is nothing wrong with this format. Nowadays, some of the most successful games are Free-To-Play with microtransactions and this is definitely a very good way to monetise the game without consting the users anything. The way the company has approached this is also very ethical, as the players can unlock the extra content by just playing normally - there is no need to pay to enjoy the game fully, just if you would like to progress faster. Multi-buy discounts are also a practice that is seen everywhere and is just a marketing trick, but not necessarily nefarious as it doesn't force the customer to pay more.   
The only concern could be that the company starts prioritising the monetisable parts of the game and neglects the actual content and gameplay, for example [Blizzard Entertainment](https://www.ign.com/articles/now-diablo-4-is-out-in-the-wild-the-true-horror-of-its-costly-microtransactions-has-revealed-itself) -  *25$ for a set of armor in a game??Really?*.

### Scenario 3
This is often the case with many social/ match-making apps - Tinder for example, where most of the features are behind a hefty paywall. Legally nothing wrong with charging users to pay premium for a service that is not essential, although the company could have turned away a lot of their users by making the switch from free to "freemium". The only potential legal trouble could be with sharing the user's location data to advertisers, though again that is being done very commonly nowadays and a lot of users agree to it without realising. Again, the company should be very clear about the change in advertising and data share, and ideally it should be an opt-in service.   
Targeting advertisements to local businesses rather than massive corporations that would pay more is very admirable though, and definitely should be mentioned. Also from an ethical perspective, the fact that some of the users won't be able to easily contact or meet new friends anymore is troubling, as this affects the user's daily life and happiness/mental health. The trial periods are an okay way to mitigate some of that, though ideally the restrictions should not be so heavily applied to the existing users, only to new ones.
